Flying in the face of the old adage that
wanting more is how any worthwhile
entertainer should leave them, Hollywood
has never been shy about churning out a
sequel. And so, in the everpresent midst
of part twos and threes and shared
universes and spin-offs, it's time to
look at the 10 best sequels of all time.
[music]
Sequels are a strange proposition. In a
lot of ways, they're the lowest hanging
fruit there is. If a movie makes money,
well, go make three or four more of
them. They all yell, clamoring in the
streets. But by that same token, they're
also some of the hardest movies to pull
off. They're actually set up to fail.
They naturally have big shoes to fill
based on the simple fact that they only
exist because the first installment was
popular. So popular, in fact, that a
building full of executives decided to
sink a boatload of studio resources into
making another one. As a result, a
properly good sequel is difficult to
come by, but there are a variety of ways
to try, he says, segueing into his first
category.
The first and most obvious style of
sequeling is the continuation of a
story. These are movies that pick up
right where their predecessors left off.
As far as part twos go, this probably
makes the most sense. If audiences like
the characters from the first movie
enough, it's a fair bet they'll want to
see what happens to them next. In
theory, you could stitch these together
to make one big movie. This is how The
Raid 2 takes place the next day with
Rama's cheeks still bloody. It's Quantum
of Solace opening on a car chase with
Mr. White still in the trunk from the
end of Casino Royale.
>> It's time to get out.
>> The Incredibles 2 starts with the battle
against the Underminer teased in the
closing moments of the first film. Kill
Bill Volume 2 I don't think necessarily
counts here because it was originally
supposed to be just one movie as per the
whole bloody affair. This is however a
great spot to talk about an early
example of a picking up where we left
off sequel in The Bride of Frankenstein.
The 1935 follow-up to 1931's
Frankenstein opens in a delightfully
metaway. Mary Shelley, her husband
Percy, and the poet Byron are enjoying a
roaring fire on a stormy night, talking
about what an impressive story
Frankenstein was. It allows Lord Byron
to recap the events of the first film,
and Mary Shel to drop a 1930s version of
If you like that, wait till you get a
load of the sequel. A Dolly out and
cross dissolve later, and we've got one
of the first blockbuster sequels. It
picks up from the smoldering ruins of
the old mill and even backs up a few
moments to show a little more of Henry
Frankenstein's recovery. It's a
fascinating window into how they thought
about sequels in the 30s in a format
that's held up over the years. In fact,
my number 10 pick owes a fair bit of its
structure to The Bride of Frankenstein.
I'm talking about the overlapping scenes
of Back to the Future Part Two.
Marty,
YOU'VE GOT TO COME BACK WITH ME.
>> WHERE? Back to the Future.
>> What's great about Back to the Future
Part Two is that it didn't just pick up
where the first movie left off
narratively. It also picked up where it
left off thematically. If Back to the
Future pulled on the thread of what if
your parents didn't meet, the next
logical question to ask once that
adventure is sorted out is what does the
future hold for my kids? It was a brazen
question to ask at the end of the first
film, very presumptuously setting up a
sequel. But then part two opened with
the exact same scene with one twist.
Robert Zmechus crew famously reshot the
entire opening to handle the recasting
of Jennifer, bringing in Elizabeth Shu
to replace Claudia Wells. Something very
familiar about all this.
>> The edit and shot compositions line up
almost impeccably, which should surprise
no one given the technical hurdles
cleared by the rest of this production,
i.e. Thomas Wilson's dual biffs handing
things to each other. But opening the
sequel by repeating the last scene of
the first movie to set up even more time
travel shenanigans is thematically
perfect as well. Back to the Future 2 is
pretty notoriously convoluted, very
intentionally pulling on the confusing
threads that time travel presents. What
happens to the future if you change the
past or the present for that matter? For
Back to the Future Part Two, the opening
scene, of course, isn't the only bit of
the first Back to the Future to be
recreated. The rest of them, though, are
from a different perspective. And even
though the recasting wasn't the
filmmaker's choice, Claudia Wells turned
down the sequels to care for her ailing
mother, it's a case of using the
situation to your advantage. By
recreating this opening scene shot for
shot, it preps the audience to look for
subtle changes in the rest of the film.
getting jokes to land that much better
and filmmaking wizardry to play that
much more impressively.
[screaming]
>> Shark still looks fake.
>> The other side of the sequel coin from
the continuation of a story is of course
a second entirely different story. This
is a harder act to pull off. Given the
premise that sequels only exist to
follow successful films, one wouldn't
want to venture too far away from what
made the first film work. But what if an
original was so good the best idea is to
go in a completely new direction, lest
you be compared unfavorably to the
first? This is Aliens, famously
switching gears from Ridley Scott's
claustrophobic monster movie to an
all-out action flick starring Space
Marines. It's Batman Returns, cycling
out the entire supporting cast, adding a
new love interest and doubling the
villains. The Road Warrior escalates the
original Mad Max from a budget friendly
dystopia fully into the post-apocalypse.
This is Godfather Part Two because it
has its sequel cake and eats its
prequel, too. Going half flashback to a
young Veto Corleó's story while also
continuing Michael's story as he's
firmly embedded in the world his father
never wanted him to be a part of.
Frankly, Godfather Part 2 is the answer
here. It's an alltimer of a sequel, but
just as frankly, if you need another
video essay to tell you how great it is,
come on, man. Instead, for my number
nine pick, I'm going with the sequel
that perfectly illustrates the power of
telling a different story altogether
with a part two and George A. Romero's
Dawn of the Dead. But those things can
be stopped so easily.
If people would just listen, do what has
to be done.
>> How about it, Fly Boy? Let's say the
lady gets killed.
You be able to chop off her head.
Romero waited almost 10 years to follow
up Night of the Living Dead, a movie
that developed an iconic status long
after its sequel. While that film was a
contained, mostly single location indie
phenomenon, its sequel landed a
helicopter on top of a mall. Dawn of the
Dead is truly an expansion at scale of
Romero's original ideas and most
importantly doesn't feature any of the
main characters from his original film.
Of course, they were all dead. So, the
necessity of a wholly new story was an
easy reality with which to come to
terms. But the bigger challenge for
Romero after effectively, even if not
officially inventing the zombie subgenre
of horror, was showing what else could
be done with the shuffling flesheaters.
As groundbreaking a film as Night of the
Living Dead was, it was Dawn of the Dead
that proved zombie films don't have to
just be about the monsters. They can be
about what the monsters say about us.
That they can evolve with the changing
social landscape. From making statements
on the civil rights movements of the
late60s, although Romero doesn't claim
to have done that intentionally, on
through to the rampant consumerism
blossoming in the late '7s, Dawn of the
Dead looked at the absurdity of modern
conveniences, traditional gender roles,
and masculinity, among other things,
through a green-faced, undead lens. It
also gave us rad visuals like a sports
car driving through an empty mall. Dawn
of the Dead proved a point about an
entire subgenre of horror, and it's been
thriving ever since.
The middle part of the coin between the
two sides that we've already mentioned
is just as important. In fact, I think a
lot of part twos are only as good as the
part threes that follow. And often some
of the sheen of a good middle chapter
can get lost if chapter 3 sucks. As good
as Spider-Man 2 is, it loses some points
for an unfortunate third outing from
Toby Magguire and Sam Ramy. Ditto for
The Dark Knight. Because The Dark Knight
Rises, well, I just don't think it's
very good. I'm Gotham's reckoning.
>> But some trilogies are so solid
throughout their parts look even better
for reliably bridging an opening and
closing chapter. Before Sunset, for
example, is the meat in the sandwich of
maybe the most surprising trilogy ever
made. Pusher is a trilogy that'll make
your nose bleed with the middle chapter
that made a star out of Mads Mickelson.
While the two towers redefined epic
scale action with the wedfueled battle
of Helm's Deep, Peter Jackson's second
helping of Tolken might be the ultimate
middle chapter if it weren't for our
number eight pick. The Empire Strikes
Back.
>> Help. Yes,
>> I don't think [clears throat] so. I'm
looking for a great warrior.
>> Great warrior.
[laughter]
Wars not make one great him.
>> For there even to be a category for
middle chapters in this movie list, the
concept of trilogies has to exist. You
can count the Gollum films, even though
twothirds of the silent German
expressionist films have been lost to
time. And of course, Frankenstein
technically became a trilogy and then
some. But the Empire Strikes Back ran
with the idea of a continuing story like
nothing before it. As a sequel, it was a
surprising departure from Star Wars,
featuring very little that looked or
felt like the four quadrant popcorn
thrills of George Lucas's space opera.
It dared to open with our heroes on the
back foot. Leia, Han, and Luke, along
with the entire rebellion that last we
saw, struck a major blow by exploding
that entire Death Star.
But in the space of an opening crawl,
they're suddenly outgunned, outmanned,
and scampering from one hideout to the
next. But the way it ended on a downbeat
as well is its true contribution to
cinema. The rebels didn't get a single
win throughout the entire movie and the
credits start rolling like it's no big
deal. There's zero intention on the part
of The Empire Strikes Back to be the end
of the story. It wasn't shot backtoback
as a planned trilogy. Back to the Future
would pull that trick later in the
decade and Lord of the Rings wouldn't
bring it into blockbuster vogue for
another 20 years. And even with the
success of Star Wars, George Lucas still
had to fight to get The Empire Strikes
Back made the way he wanted it. And
there was no guarantee of a third
installment. But still, he had the hutba
to pull off that ending. It's a gutsy
move in a franchise we take for granted
these days, but it wound up being one of
the best parts of all time.
>> I know.
When is a sequel not a sequel? When is a
middle chapter not in the middle? Now,
we're talking [music] franchises. And
what is a good franchise entry if it
doesn't do a little of everything we've
already talked about needing from a good
sequel? There's no small amount of
moving the ball forward needed from a
franchise entry, and Marvel, of course,
was the standard bearer for a solid
decade of world building. The Winter
Soldier narratively made waves
throughout the rest of the films and TV
series while doing it with heart. Well,
Guardians of the Galaxy introduced a
whole new teen that fit right into the
universe's tone and moved the larger
Thanos plot ahead. Logan wasn't
technically part of that world until
much later, but it showed what you could
do to an audience who had grown up with
Wolverine and didn't want to say
goodbye. DC didn't have much luck worth
mentioning with the Snider verse and
interconnected world building is a
pretty rare thing on the big screen.
Kong and Godzilla have versed and exed
into new empires in recent years, but
our number seven pick goes to the
longest running franchise not about
Atomic Kaiju with James Bond and
Goldfinger.
>> I think you've made your point,
Goldfinger. Thank you for the
demonstration.
>> Choose your next witism carefully, Mr.
Bond. It may be your last.
The purpose of our two previous
encounters is now very glittery. I do
not intend to be distracted by another.
Good night, Mr. Bond.
>> Do you expect me to talk?
>> No, Mr. Bond. I expect you to die.
>> Bond, James Bond, has been going strong,
a few pigeon double takes aside, since
the 1960s and is one of the most
bankable franchises of anything,
cinematic or otherwise. And the reason
I'm categorizing it here is that right
up until Daniel Craig's entries, there
just isn't enough connective tissue
between the films to qualify as sequels.
Love interests are swapped out each
time. The actor is recast every handful
of films, and there's practically no
shared history between them. A reference
or two to A Dead Wife aside. It wasn't
until the third 007 film, Goldfinger,
that Cubby Broccley and company
thoroughly hashed out the formula. Dr.
know and from Russia with love came
first. But the bond we know officially
started with Aric Goldfinger and his
plot to irdiate the gold in Fort Knox so
that his supply would become the most
valuable in the world. It was an
outlandishly villainous plot featuring
lasers aimed at Shan Connory's crotch, a
tricked out Aston Martin, a quirky
henchman with a hyperp specific way to
murder people.
Globe trotting to luxurious loces and
the iconic image of a woman suffocated
in gold paint. Goldfinger molded the
franchise into a reliable format that
hasn't changed much since. It's been
worth making fun of from French parodies
to Mike Myers and dual leading roles and
one of the most iconic episodes the
Simpsons ever made. So Goldfinger must
have done something right.
Akin to the franchise entry, we've also
got the spin-off here. There's an
important distinction to make. If a film
series has generated a few sequels along
one story line the first time they
venture off to focus on new characters,
it's not quite a franchise yet, but is a
spin-off. Animation worlds expand
rapidly, giving us the minions off the
mainline Despicable Me sequel, which I
mentioned first because I have children
and minions are rarely far off from my
mind. Puss and Boots added to the Shrek
verse in wildly unconnected ways, with
The Last Wish being a legitimately
gorgeous to look at film. While Lego
Batman showed more of the heart the two
Lego movies surprised us with. Horror
franchises are particularly good here as
well, with any number of Conjuring
spin-offs following the exploits of
demons and Annabels and nuns on spooky
side quests. Action franchises have
turned in some good entries, too, with
like as Travis Knight bringing his stop
motion expertise to Transformers with
Bumblebee. Hobbs and Shaw spun away to
be Fast and Furious all by themselves.
And while Prey was a fantastic Predator
film nobody saw coming, for our number
six pick, I'm going with another Dan
Tractenberg film that took us by
surprise. And 10 Cloverfield Lane
[panting]
10 Cloverfield Lane is kind of the
ultimate spin-off. It would have been
the second entry in a wouldbe anthology
series that sputtered pretty hard its
next time out. The film also began its
life as something else entirely, a spec
script with a different title and a
different ending. Seeing that the story
shared DNA with the city stomping kaiju
found footage gym that came before it, a
film also shrouded in a fair bit of
mystery before its release. [music] Only
then did it become a Cloverfield movie.
That real world context aside, 10
Cloverfield Lane is a perfect spin-off
also because it pulls on the same
threads as the original, but from a
wildly different perspective. Instead of
seeing the devastation wrought by the
invading Kaiju firsthand, [music] we're
left stew in the paranoia of whether or
not it's actually happening. Dan
Traxxenberg traps us in a basement and
uses an expert fluency in the language
of thriller cinema to set up obstacles,
shift the focus of the danger, and
finally reveal the truth, all in a
modestly budgeted movie contained in a
single location. There are no cities
destroyed or chaotic camcorder footage
of the Statue of Liberty's head. But the
small-cale havoc in a doomsday bunker is
no less impactful.
There is, of course, a different flavor
of spin-off that features a subtle
enough hallmark to deserve its own
category. This is the changing of the
guard. This is not, mind you, simply
recasting a new actor in the lead role
of a film series or rebooting the thing
altogether. This is when a torch is well
and truly passed to a different
character. Having said that, I will
naturally give Batman Forever a shout
out here as the exception to the rule as
the new Bruce Wayne and new director and
expansion of the Bat family counts for
something. Ghostbusters Afterlife had
the right idea to change the entire
setting of its long-range sequel in
addition to its protagonists leaving New
York City for the plains of rural
Oklahoma. The new set of Dwayne Johnson
led Jumanji films did the same while
Ballerina attempted to do the same. Wes
Craraven's meta as hell new nightmare
tried a much more unorthodox passing of
the torch from fiction to non-fiction.
And for the most part, it worked out to
be a lot of weird fun. If for no other
reason, it was clearly laying some
groundwork for Scream. But nobody quite
so effectively handed the baton from one
generation to the next like Ryan Cougler
and Michael B. Jordan did with Creed.
>> I want you to train me. All right. I
need somebody solid. And who else better
to go to? Now you at least owe me that.
>> I can tell the way you're talking.
You've been to school, you know, so I
figure you got some brains. Why would
you want to pick a fighter's life when
you don't have to? If Apollo was around,
he would tell you that, too.
>> He ain't around.
>> Creed would go on to feature two more
sequels, neither of which were bad by
any measure. But Cougler and Jordan's
first round following the illegitimate
son of an all-time great who died in the
ring, reconnecting with his father's
former rival turned friend would have
been a great movie on its own. It's a
study of legacy and inheritance and how
to incorporate the shadow you live under
into your own story. Creed was clearly
made with a genuine love for the
original series and an understanding of
not only what made them great, but also
how to bring a fresh perspective. Plus,
it's got some incredible fight
choreography to boot. But it's not a
standalone movie. It's a sequel to six
movies in which Sylvester Stallone's
Rocky fought well past his sell date.
Stallone's Oscar nominated run as the
aging [music] boxer transitioning into a
mentor role makes the movie literally
about one generation letting go of the
past and embracing what the new
generation can offer, which is a meta
narrative we can get behind. Not quite
the New Nightmare brand of meta, but
still a good dose of context with
[music] which to enjoy the movie that
much more. It also features one of the
most incredibly timed blasts of
nostalgic music in film history.
The Bill Conti horns from Rocky's
original soundtrack coming out of
absolutely nowhere become Adonis' theme
as he stands up for his final round.
It's a single moment in the entire
film's runtime that really cements
Creed's legacy as the best changing of
the Guard sequel in quite some time.
Next up, we've got the categorically
similar to the guard changing sequel,
the long range sequels or reboots or
Lego sequels. God Christ, they're two
cutesy names for the same thing. That's
tough. While they're neighbors, to the
point of sharing a wall in a duplex, the
long-range sequel doesn't endeavor to
generate a new series. It's not telling
a different story or following a side
quest like a spin-off. Instead, it picks
up the same narrative that was left off
years ago. While this seems like a newer
phenomenon given the nostalgia fervor of
the last several years, it's important
to recognize the older entries though.
Scorsese sequel to The Hustler: The
Color of Money finds an aging fast Eddie
taking a young Tom Cruz looking
billiard's talent under his wing. And
even Ingmar Bergman revisited his epic
chamber piece scenes from a marriage 30
years later with Sarah Bend. [music] Mad
Max Fury Road counts here as opposed to
a passing the torch because Tom Hardy
was playing Max technically, but Top Gun
Maverick, T2 Train Spotting, 2018's
Halloween from David Gordon Green all
did it well. And even though Keanu
Reeves has helped bring back both Bill
and Ted and the Matrix after lengthy
layoffs, the king of the long range
sequel seems to be Harrison Ford. From
the Force Awakens to two very
unnecessary Indiana Jones sequels. Oh,
that can't be good at all. And our
number four pick, Bladeunner 2049.
>> Is it real?
>> I don't know. Ask him.
>> In 1982, Bladeunner changed the way
science fiction looked for an entire
generation. And as the first big screen
adaptation of a Philip K. Dick work
raised ideas that writers are continuing
to grapple with today. It also really
didn't need a sequel. In fact, a sequel
really shouldn't make sense. The
decadesl long debate as to whether
Decard was a replicant or not added to
the film's mystique, a film that was
very much not a commercial success, as
did the many iterations of the film that
have been released since its original
theatrical run. What makes 2049
brilliant is that it follows in its
predecessor's ambiguity. It both answers
and doesn't answer some of the
original's biggest questions. No matter
how you come down on the is Decard a
replicant question, for example, you're
able to watch 2049 and continue
believing whatever you like. Denvil seem
to be under no obligation to clarify
anything about the original or fill in
the nitpicky gaps that so many LEGO
sequels get fixated on. Ryan Gosling's K
is not the new standard bearer for the
franchise, nor is he even the Luke
Skywalker style chosen one on whom the
plot hinges. He's a cog in a bigger
story, one that's not his, which allows
Bladerunner 2049 to explore the
questions of humanity that the first
Bladeunner raised so ambiguously and
interestingly a generation ago.
We're down to our final three picks, so
it's time to stray a little further a
field into what is traditionally my
favorite part of movie listing where we
get a little weird for a few picks. It's
time to transcend the narrative to
arrive in the astral plane of the
spiritual sequel. These are the movies
when a filmmaker revisits an idea or a
theme more than stories or characters.
These sequels are recognizable in a
director's style more than the substance
on screen, which makes them extra fun to
spot. This is Linkletter's easy hang out
on the baseball diamond everybody wants
some as the successor to the landmark
high [music] school slice of life dazed
and confused. It's desperado for Robert
Rodriguez following up El Mariachi. You
can make an argument for nearly all of
Miyazaki's [music] work, but I've always
felt like Nica of the Valley of the Wind
and Princess Monoke share a little more
DNA than the rest. Ridley Scott's the
dualists and the last duel share a bit
more than just the one word in their
titles and make for interesting
partners. Carito's Way is Brian Dealma
more maturely looking back on the past
as a follow-up to Scarface's greedy
Never Going to Die energy. But where
crime epics are concerned and spiritual
sequels for that matter, nobody's done
it quite so well as Martin Scorsesei and
Casino.
>> All right, I'm going to give you a
choice. You can either have the money
and the hammer or you can walk out of
here. You can't have both. What do you
want?
>> I just want to get out of here.
>> And don't forget to tell your friends
what happens if they [__] around here.
You understand?
>> I'm sorry. I made a bad mistake.
>> You'reing right. You made a bad mistake.
Cuz if you come back here, we catch
either one, we're going to break your
heads and you won't walk out of here.
You see that saw, we're going to use it.
You don't [__] around in this place.
>> Whether you believe it or not, and if
you absolutely have to take a hard
stance on this kind of thing, you can.
But casino might actually be better than
Good Fellas. At minimum, the way it will
always be, the latter's little brother
is the real crime here. The way Casino
digs into a criminal enterprise across
decades, consuming shady characters of
all sorts into its vortex of glamour and
greed and violence endured its share of
unfavorable comparison to Good Fellas
when it was released and of course in
the years since as well.
>> Casino
seen it already,
but I liked it better the first time I
saw it when it was called Good Fellas.
But Marty is just so goddamn good at it.
With the glittering lights of the mob
run Las Vegas strips, Scorsesei painted
his organized crime canvas with a whole
new setting and from a different
perspective as well. Where good fellas
followed a man in love with the life
afforded by the mob, Casino was about a
man obsessed with order and control. And
even though Casino largely followed the
rise and fall structure of most of the
best crime movies, Rothstein can't
control the downfall of the wise guy's
racket in Vegas. But still, under the
brutality of the life they've all agreed
to is a sort of nostalgia, an admiration
even for the way things worked under the
mob. They had a good thing going, and
the story of how even they couldn't make
it last is a fascinating portrait that
deserves to sit alongside Good Fellas.
One does not need to be better than the
other. We're lucky to have both. And as
Sam Rosteen would say, and why mess up a
good thing?
Now that we've properly shaken the
surirly bonds of sequel gravity, let's
tack on a whole other movie. You know
what? Let's tack on two other whole
movies. Let's talk about thematic
trilogies. When a spiritual sequel just
isn't enough and an idea is so worth
exploring, a filmmaker revisits the same
idea three times and qualifies [music]
for this category. Congratulations, you
guys. Some are quite obvious. Kristoff
Kaislowski's Three Colors trilogy, for
example, digging into the metaphors
behind the colors of the French flag.
There's the curious sensory extravaganza
of the Katsi trilogy, tied together as a
study of man's obsession and ambition.
There's Edgar Wright's Cornetto trilogy
connected by genre parody and throwaway
references to ice cream. While Roy
Anderson's living trilogy took 15 years
to complete, [music] same for Wong Car
Wise Love trilogy. There are thematic
trilogies that arrive in quick bursts of
creativity like Ingmar Bergman's Silence
of God films or Michelangelo Antonio's
Alienation trilogy from the early 60s or
Ozu's Norico trilogy in the late 40s and
[music] early 50s. that all nine of
those films rift on the theme of
traditions chafing against the
mid-century's oncoming modern lifestyle
[music]
honestly makes them all related in my
brain at least. But for my number two
pick, man, it is hard to beat Park Chan
Wuk and his Vengeance trilogy.
Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance, Old Boy, and
Lady Vengeance comprise three chapters
of warped revenge tales. The three films
are consistently difficult, offering no
real catharsis for their revenge-minded
characters. They're challenging,
torturous psychological thrillers, each
executed with a unique noirish style
that's a funny little spoonful of sugar
that helps the bleak, violent medicine
in the rest of the movies go down. Each
of the three films presents a different
story with the same results. An obsessed
protagonist violently seeking revenge
that, to be honest, it's hard to argue
they don't deserve. The result is a
sense of relatability to the characters
that terrible things can happen to
anybody, but that anybody is also
capable of terrible things in their
search for retribution. With his
vengeance trilogy, Parchan Wuk presents
a twisted perspective that doesn't leave
many oncreen untarnished. Boooied by the
cult classic masterpiece status of its
middle installment, Old Boy, it's a
trilogy that's as consistent in style,
tone, and narrative as any start to
finish three-part story could hope to
be, making it one of the best thematic
trilogies cinema has ever seen.
What is a sequel's purpose? We got all
the way to number one before I even
bothered asking that. But what is it if
not to expand upon the original? Well,
how about be better than the original?
What parent doesn't want to see their
children do greater things? These are a
rarer breed of sequel to be sure, but
for our last spot, we have to honor
those sequels who saw what their
ancestors did and thought, "Nah, I can
beat that." The Bride of Frankenstein,
as we mentioned up top, is better and
more lasting in a lot of ways, as many
of the tropes we associate with
Frankenstein actually come from bride as
opposed to the first one. I'll go to bat
for Paddington 2 as one of the century's
greatest movies, period. Not just
sequels, until I draw my last breath.
But Paul King in That Adorable Bear's
Misadventures in Prison doubled down on
everything that made the first movie
charming as hell in all the exactly
right ways. Ditto for Hot Shots part
Doo, but I won't explain myself to you
on that one. Now, to be honest, most of
our other picks, it could be argued,
surpassed their predecessors to some
degree, and they'd feel right at home
here in the top spot as well. But I
saved the best for number one.
Terminator 2: Judgement Day.
>> Mom, are you okay? Mom,
>> come with me if you want to live.
>> Terminator 2 is a sequel that's better
than the original on every single level.
James Cameron wrangled a convoluted time
travel plot into something more
manageable, efficient, and with an
outsized heart. If 1984's The Terminator
were a simple sci-fi thriller machine,
T2 adds nuances of fate and destiny and
the terrible burden of knowing how
things are going to turn out. The story
line, where Arnold's T800 learns to be
more human along the way, is a fantastic
lesson for sequelers everywhere who fall
more in love with crafting mind-blowing
narrative mythologies than they do the
characters on screen, who are the more
important part of the equation. James
Cameron's technical innovations took
leaps and bounds here as well, inventing
new ways to create realistic computer
graphics in the early days of the CGI
revolution, but there is an amount of
practical effects that would surprise
you. But the blend of the two is where
Cameron's brilliance lies and still does
all the way through the motion capture
tech on Avatar. It also quite frankly
should have been the end of the
Terminator franchise. Judgement Day
wrapped things up so perfectly that has
to be part of the reason nobody's really
been able to give a [__] about the
movies that have come since, making it
all at once better than the first,
impossible to top, and maybe the
greatest secret of all time.
Well, that's about 5,000 words on
sequels. And if you're still here for
these last few, prove it by letting us
know what your favorite sequel is in the
comments. And bonus points if it's one I
didn't mention. There is a lot. And as
always, subscribe to IGN and Cinnaphix
[music] for more movie lists.